After building and
training your model,
it is essential to assess
how well it performs.
For machine translation,
you have different metrics that
were engineered
just for this task.
In this lecture, I will
show you the BLEU score and
some of its issues
for evaluating
machine translation models.
The BLEU score, a bilingual
evaluation under study,
is an algorithm designed
to evaluate some of
the most challenging problems in
NLP, including
machine translation.
It evaluates the quality of
machine-translated text by
comparing a candidate
translation
to one or more references,
which are often
human translations.
The closer the BLEU
score is to one,
the better your model is,
the closer to zero,
the worse it is.
With that said, what is
the BLEU score and why is
this an important metric?
To get the BLEU score,
you have to compute the
precision of the candidates
by comparing its end-grams
with reference translations.
To demonstrate, I'll use
unigrams as an example.
Let's say that you have a
candidate sequence that
you got from your model
composed of I, I, am, I.
You also have one
reference translation
which contains the words,
Eunice said, I'm hungry.
A second reference translation
that includes the words,
he said, I'm hungry.
To get the BLEU score,
you count how many words from
the candidate appear in any of
the references and
divide that count by
the total number of words in
the candidate translation.
You can view it as
a precision metric.
You have to go
through all the words
in the candidate translation.
First, you have the word I,
which appears in both
reference translations.
You add one to your count.
Then you have again the word I,
which you already know
appears on both references,
and you add one to your count.
After that, you have the word
am which also appears
in both references.
You add that word to your count.
At the end, you have
the word I again,
which appears on
both references.
You can add one to your count.
Finally, you can get the
BLEU score by dividing
your count by the number of
words in the candidate
translation,
which in this case
is equal to 4.
The whole process gives you
a BLEU score equal to 1.
Weird? This translation that
is far from being equal to
the references got
a perfect score.
With this vanilla BLEU score,
a model that always outputs
common words will do great.
Let's try a modified
version that will give
you a better estimate of
your model's performance.
For the modified version
of the BLEU score,
after you find a word from
the candidates in one or
more of the references,
you stop considering
that word from
the reference for the following
words in the candidates.
In other words, you
exhaust the words in
the references after you
match them with a word
in the candidates.
Let's start from the beginning
of the candidate translation.
You have the word I that
appears in both references.
You add one to your count and
exhaust the word I
from both references.
Then you have the word I again,
but you don't have that word
in the references because
it was taken out for the
previous word in the candidate.
You don't add anything
to your count.
Then you have the word M,
which appears in
both references.
You add one to your counts and
eliminate the word M
from both references.
After that, you have
the word I again,
but no left occurrences
in the references.
You don't add anything
to your counts.
Finally, you divide your count
by the number of words in
the candidate translation
to get BLEU score
of 2/4 or 0.5.
As you can note, this version of
the BLEU score makes more sense
than the vanilla implementation.
However, like anything in life,
using the BLEU score as an
evaluation metric
has some caveats.
For one, it doesn't
consider the semantic
meaning of the words.
It also doesn't consider the
structure of the sentence.
Imagine getting
this translation.
Ate I was hungry because.
If the reference sentence is
I ate because I was hungry,
this would get a
perfect BLEU score.
BLEU score is the most widely
adopted evaluation metric
for machine translation.
But you should be aware of these
drawbacks before using it.
You now know how to evaluate
your machine translation
model using the BLEU score.
I also showed you that this
metric has some issues
because it doesn't care about
semantics and
sentence structure.
In the following video,
you'll see another metric
for machine translation.
That metric could be used to
better estimate your
model performance.